Use the commands above to complete the following tasks, and submit the SQL statements. Real-world examples must be distinct from those used in the text.

1. List the commands for adding, updating, and deleting data.

A: The command for adding is INSERT INTO. You name the table and then list the values you want to add with VALUES (). For example you would write:
  INSERT INTO library VALUES (1234, 'The Raven', 'Edgar Allan Poe');
in order to put a new book with those values into the library table.

In order to update an item in a table you use the UPDATE command with the table name, what you are setting the line to, and where the update is happening. For example you would type:
  UPDATE library SET bookid=1235 WHERE name='The Raven'; 
That would change the bookid value for the book we just added from 1234 to 1235.

To delete data you use the DELETE FROM command, naming the table to delete from and which item you are deleting. For example:
  DELETE FROM library WHERE bookid=1235;
That would delete that item that we just inserted and changed from the table.

2. Explain the structure for each type of command.

A: The structure for each type of command is very similar. You start with the action that you are taking and the table that you are using. (DELETE FROM library, UPDATE library, INSERT INTO library). Next you include the information or data that you are changing whether it is adding, modifying or deleting. Lastly you indicate where the change is being made if required. 

3. What are some of the data types that can be used in tables? Give a real-world example of each type.

A: Numeric types are extremely common to be used in tables. One type of numeric data type that is frequently used is money. The money type is used opposed to floating point types to avoid rounding errors. The money data type could be used for a table that includes a businesses monthly transactions in order to track expenditures. Another very common data type are the Date/Time types and especially time stamps. Time stamps could also be used in the example of a businesses transations to show the date and time that the transaction was made. They are also frequently used in other applications such as a chat room and could be stored in a data base that holds chats from a particular chat room.

4. Decide how to create a new table to hold a list of people invited to a wedding dinner. The table needs to have first and last names, whether they sent in their RSVP, the number of guests they are bringing, and the number of meals (1 for adults and 1/2 for children).

  -Which data type would you use to store each of the following pieces of    information?
     -First and last name. 
      A: Text

     -Whether they sent in their RSVP. 
      A: Boolean

     -Number of guests.
      A: Integer

     -Number of meals.
      A: Numeric

  -Write a command that creates the table to track the wedding dinner.
   A: CREATE TABLE weddingDinner (
        guests integer,
        names text,
        rsvp boolean,
        meals numeric(3, 1)
       );

  -Write a command that adds a column to track whether the guest sent a   thank you card.
   A: ALTER TABLE weddingDinner ADD COLUMN thank_you_card boolean; 

  -You have decided to move the data about the meals to another table, so   write a command to remove the column storing the number meals from the   wedding table.
   A: ALTER TABLE weddingDinner DROP COLUMN meals; 

  -The guests will need a place to sit at the reception, so write a command   that adds a column for table number.
   A: ALTER TABLE weddingDinner ADD COLUMN table_numbers integer;

  -The wedding is over and we do not need to keep this information, so write   a command that deletes the table numbers from the database.
   A: ALTER TABLE weddingDinner DROP COLUMN table_numbers;

5. Write a command to create a new table to hold the books in a library with the columns ISBN, title, author, genre, publishing date, number of copies, and available copies.
   A: CREATE TABLE library (
        isbn text,
        title text,
        author text,
        genre text,
        publishing_date date,
        copies integer
      );

  -Find three books and add their information to the table.
   A: INSERT INTO library 
      VALUES ('0-590-45984-8', 'Mama, Do You Love Me?', 'Barbara Joose', 'childerens', 1992-11-01, 1),
      ('0-440-18009-0', 'Slapstick', 'Kirt Vonnegut', 'distopian', null, 2),
      ('0-451-20453-0', 'Code To Zero', 'Ken Follett', 'Thriller', null, 4);

  -Someone has just checked out one of the books. Change the number of    available copies to 1 fewer.
   A: UPDATE library SET copies=1 WHERE isbn='0-440-18009-0';

  -Now one of the books has been added to the banned books list. Remove it   from the table.
   A: DELETE FROM library WHERE isbn='0-451-20453-0';

6. Write a command to make a new table to hold spacecrafts. Information should include id, name, year launched, country of origin, a brief description of the mission, orbiting body, if it is currently operating, and its approximate miles from Earth. In addition to the table creation, provide commands that perform the following operations:

  A: CREATE TABLE spacecrafts (
       id integer,
       name text,
       year_launched date,
       country_of_origin text,
       mission text,
       orbiting_body text,
       currently_operating boolean,
       miles_from_Earth integer
     );

  -Add three non-Earth-orbiting satellites to the table.
   A: INSERT INTO spacecrafts 
      VALUES
      (001, 'Sleepy', '2001-11-01', 'United States', 'Monitor sleep from space', 'Earth', TRUE, 100),
      (002, 'Dopy', '2002-12-01', 'United States', 'Drug effects in space', 'Earth', TRUE, 110),
      (003, 'Sneezy', '1999-03-02', 'Japan', 'Sneezing with no gravity', 'Earth', FALSE, 120);

  -Remove one of the satellites from the table since it has just crashed   into the planet.
   A: DELETE FROM spacecrafts WHERE id=002;

  -Edit another satellite because it is no longer operating and change the   value to reflect that.
   A: UPDATE spacecrafts SET currently_operating=FALSE WHERE id=001;

7. Write a command to create a new table to hold the emails in your inbox. This table should include an id, the subject line, the sender, any additional recipients, the body of the email, the timestamp, whether or not you have read the email, and the id of the email chain it's in. Also provide commands that perform the following operations:

A: CREATE TABLE inbox (
     id integer,
     subj text,
     sender text,
     additional_recipients text,
     body text,
     time_stamp timestamp,
     read_ boolean,
     email_chain_id integer
   );

  -Add three new emails to the inbox.
   A: INSERT INTO inbox 
      VALUES (1112, 'Work Project', 'George Jetson', 'Betty Rubble', 'Hey, that work assignment is due next tuesday. Do you want to get together to work on it?  Thanks! George', September 1 04:05:06 2018 MST, TRUE, 1122334),
      (1113, 'Football Game', 'John Thumb', 'Ashton Coolguy', 'I bought a block of tickets for the football game if you are interested? Let me know. Thanks! John', September 2 06:12:06 2018 MST, TRUE, 1122335),
      (1114, 'Birthday Party', 'Colleen Hope', 'Lisa Loopy', 'We are having the Tinas Birthday Party next week at 2pm if you can come. Hit me back', September 3 09:15:06 2018 MST, FALSE, 1122336);

  -You deleted one of the emails, so write a command to remove the row from   the inbox table.
   A: DELETE FROM inbox WHERE id=1114;

  -You started reading an email but just heard a crash in another room. Mark   the email as unread before investigating the crash, so you can come back   and read it later.
   A: UPDATE inbox SET read=FALSE WHERE id=1112;